This project focuses on convolutional neural networks for classifying data from astronomical surveys to incorporate computer vision and big data management systems with modern astronomy. The objective is to develop neural networks which take images of galaxies as input and predict their type, bypassing the need to perform the task manually.
Galaxies are gravitationally bound systems of stars, stellar remnants, interstellar gas, dust, and dark matter [1] [2]. They can be classified according to their visual morphology as elliptical [3], spiral or irregular [4]. The task of categorising them is largely done by astronomers and it is hence difficult to keep up with the large amounts of data coming from space [5] and ground telescopes every night. This necessitates the implementation of innovative data handling and processing algorithms.
Neural networks are computing systems in the form of series of algorithms based on connections between artificial neurons [6], which attempt to identify underlying relationships in a set of data. Each neuron in the net can receive a signal, process it and further signal neurons connected to it, hence mimicking the process involved in the operation of the human brain.

**Dataset**

The data is obtained from the Data Release 16 of The Sloan Digital Sky Survey [7], which is a multi-spectral imaging and spectroscopic redshift survey using a 2.5 metre wide-angle optical telescope at Apache Point Observatory, New Mexico, USA.
The training data consisted of 60,000+ colour images each of size 324 by 324 pixels and was shortened to 20,000 images only due to limitations of available computational power. The images and their respective entries were shuffled before being cropped. Each image was cropped to 256 by 256 pixels and the data was then divided into training and test sets with an 80%/20% split, thus producing 16,000 training images and 4,000 test images.
